Weather is what happens in the sky. Weather includes wind, lightning, storms, hurricanes, tornadoes, rain, hail, snow, and lots more. Energy from the sun affects the weather. Climate tells us what kinds of weather usually happen in an area at different times of the year. Changes in weather can affect our mood. We wear different clothes and do different things in different weather conditions. We choose different foods in different seasons, like ice cream in the summer, or hot chocolate in the winter.

Agriculture is not only growing food for people and animals, but also growing other things like flowers, ornamental plants (plants people use to improve the look of their homes) and nursery plants (plants people buy to grow food on their own farms and land), manure or dung, animal hides (skins or furs), leather, industrial chemicals (starch, ethanol, and plastics), fibers (cotton, wool, hemp, and flax), fuels (methane, biodiesel, biomass), and drugs (biopharmaceuticals, marijuana, opium).

Saturn is an oblate spheroid, meaning that it is flattened at the poles, and it swells out around its equator.[13] The planet's equatorial diameter is 120,536 km (74,898 mi), while its polar diameter (the distance from the north pole to the south pole) is 108,728 km (67,560 mi); a 9% difference.[14] Saturn has a flattened shape; it is due to its very fast rotation, rotating once every 10.8 hours.[2] Saturn is the only planet in the Solar System that is less dense than water. Even though the planet's core is very dense, it has a gaseous atmosphere, so the average specific density of the planet is 0.69 g/cm³ (less than the density of water). This means if Saturn could be placed in a large pool of water, it would float.[15]

Physical health[change | change source] Physical fitness refers to good body health, and is the result of regular exercise, proper diet and nutrition, and proper rest for physical recovery. A person who is physically fit will be able to walk or run without getting breathless and they will be able to carry out the activities of everyday living and not need help. How much each person can do will depend on their age and whether they are a man or woman. A physically fit person usually has a normal weight for their height. The relation between their height and weight is called their Body Mass Index. A taller person can be heavier and still be fit. If a person is too heavy or too thin for their height it may affect their health. [3]

One day an elephant wandered into a forest in search of friends. He saw a monkey on a tree. “Will you be my friend?” asked the elephant.
Replied the monkey, “You are too big. You can not swing from trees like me.” Next, the elephant met a rabbit. He asked him to be his friends.
But the rabbit said, “You are too big to play in my burrow!” Then the elephant met a frog. “Will you be my friend? He asked.
“How can I?” asked the frog. “You are too big to leap about like me.” The elephant was upset.
He met a fox next. “Will you be my friend?” he asked the fox.
The fox said, “Sorry, sir, you are too big.” The next day, the elephant saw all the animals in the forest running for their lives.
The elephant asked them what the matter was. The bear replied, “There is a tiger in the forest. He’s trying to gobble us all up!” The animals all ran away to hide. The elephant wondered what he could do to save everyone in the forest.
Meanwhile, the tiger kept eating up whoever he could find. The elephant walked up to the tiger and said, “Please, Mr. Tiger, do not eat up these poor animals.” “Mind your own business!” growled the tiger.
The elephant has a no choice but to give the tiger a hefty kick. The frightened tiger ran for his life. The elephant ambled back into the forest to announce the good news to everyone.
All the animals thanked the elephant. They said, “You are just the right size to be our friend.”
Have you ever looked along a smooth road in hot weather and seen what appears to be a stretch of water where none exists? This is a mirage. It is caused by the air being heated in such a way that hot layers of air lie under cold layers. The cold air is thicker than the hot air and this causes light passing trough the layers to be bent. This bending gives the illusion of water, or even sends a picture of the scene many miles away.
Mirages often occur in the desert. Lakes are seen where there is really nothing but sand. And sometimes images of towns and palm trees appear and taunt the thirsty traveller. The same thing happens at sea, when ghostly ships are seen floating in the sky.
It is easy to tell a mirage from the real thing, however, because the objects in it are all upside down. This is caused by the way the rays of light are bent.
The burning sensation you get when you touch something hot, say a hot poker, is caused by the effect of the heat on the nerve-endings in your fingers. These nerve endings flash a message to the brain, in the form of a stab of pain, that says something dangerous is happening to the fingers. The brain flashes a message back to tell the fingers to drop the poker.
In the same way you can get a burning sensation by holding your hand against a block of ice. It is not so severe as the pain caused by something hot, but is very similar in feeling, and is caused by the body’s heat being suddenly taken away from the nerve-endings. The burning feeling lingers on in both cases because the sensitive nerve-endings have been damaged by the sudden change in temperature.
We must eat regularly in order to stay alive. Our body transforms the food we eat into the energy which will make us active and help us to grow. All growing things need energy. And the largest source of energy is the sun. The plants and animals which form our food were themselves all helped to grow by the sunlight. After we have eaten them, they are changed into easily dissolved, nutritious substances inside our bodies. These are then transferred to innumerable cells and converted into energy. Then our bodies burn the energy as a stove burns fuel. In this roundabout way, the sun’s energy reaches our bodies.

You know that some birds fly away to the warm lands in autumn because our climate is too cold for them. But there are lots of small wild creatures who cannot escape from the frost and snow of winter. What happens to them?Many of them are still about, of course, even in the coldest weather. You sometimes see their footprints in the snow. Others hibernate, making themselves as warm as possible until spring comes.When the water in the ponds becomes too cold, it is time for frogs to hibernate. They burrow their way down into the mud at the bottom where it will always be a few degrees warmer, and stay till spring.

Food acts in our bodies as petrol does in a car. But petrol only makes a car go, does not mend a car or replace worn out parts. Food, on the other hand, not only gives us the energy to live and grow, it also provides substances to prevent illness, cure disease and keep our body temperature constant. Although different people all over the world eat different things, the same basic food substances are necessary to all if they are to stay healthy. These are: proteins, carbohydrates, fats and minerals. In addition, there are the vitamins. An Eskimos eats a differnt diet from an Arab, and an American’s meal is not at all like that of a Chinese. But all of them depend on they same basic food substances so that the differences are not so very great.

An Italian was once visiting New York City. He wished to take a walk in order to see the city, but he was afraid that he would get lost because he did not know a word of English. Therefore, after leaving his hotel, he stopped at the first corner and carefully copied in his notebook the name of the street on which his hotel was located. Then he walked on. Finally, however, he got lost. Some hours later he arrived at a police-station. After a good deal of confused conversation, an interpreter was called. The Italian explained to the interpreter that, although he didn’t konw the name of his hotel, he did know the street on which it was located. He then showed the interpreter what he had copied in his note book. The words which he had so carefully copied were “One Way Street”.
